You're ahead of growth at Lovable on
track to be the fastest or one of the
fastest growing companies in history.
>> We're over 200 million in AR at this
point. We're 100 people large. The pace
here is insane.
>> You said that you've had to throw out
most of your growth playbook.
>> I feel like only 30 to 40% of what I've
learned in the last 15 to 20 years of
being in growth transfers here because
we just need to invest in such bigger
bets and innovate and create new growth
loops here. Everybody and their mother
is starting a vibe coding business
nowadays and we need to figure out how
to be ahead of them. And to be ahead of
them is not optimization of the problem.
It's reinvention of the solution. I just
feel like I usually spend maybe 5%
innovating on growth in my previous
roles. Right now I'm spending 95%
innovating on growth and only 5% on
optimization.
>> What do you find is actually moving the
needle? One of our biggest strategy is
building in public and it's coupled with
employee socials, founder le socials and
another one is giving your product away
a lot. This is part of our growth secret
sauce. You have to remove the barrier of
entry. If somebody one of our users
stands up and say hey I'm going to have
a hackathon at my work unlovable. Can
you give us some free credits to play
with? Why would we prevent a person who
wants to do all of the marketing and
activating for us from using us? We're
like, take it. How much do you need?
>> The trick is get more people to try it.
Just ship things you can talk about.
>> The only way to create a word of mouth
loop is just to blow their socks off.
>> Today, my guest is Elena Vera, head of
growth at Lovable. In under one year
after launching with fewer than 100
people, Lovable hit 200 million ARR,
which is one of, if not the fastest ramp
to 200 million AR R in history, and
growth is still accelerating. They've
also recently raised a series B at a $6
billion valuation. So, with that,
there's a lot to learn about what
Lovable has figured out about growth.
This is Elena's fourth visit to the
podcast, A Record. She is my favorite
growth mind. And in our conversation, we
talk about how the growth playbook has
fundamentally changed for AI companies.
What works now, what no longer works,
and what has surprised her most about
how Lovable grows. She also shares her
advice about whether working at an AI
company is right for you, some
incredibly interesting insights into
lovable secret sauce for growth, the
unique ways they operate internally,
their approach to building minimal
lovable products, also how they hire,
and also how product market fit as a
concept is no longer what it used to be,
and how every company basically has to
recapture product market fit every 3
months. This episode is incredibly
tactical, and you will leave this
conversation smarter on so many levels.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget
to subscribe and follow it in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. And
if you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 19
incredible premium products, including a
year free of lovable, replet, bolt,
nadan, linear, devon, postto,
superhuman, dcript, whisper flow,
perplexity, warp, granola, magic
patterns, raycast, chappd, mobin, and
stripe atlas. Head on over to
lennisnewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Elena Vera
after a short word from our sponsors.
Here's a puzzle for you. What do OpenAI,
Cursor, Perplexity, Versel, Platt, and
hundreds of other winning companies have
in common? The answer is they're all
powered by today's sponsor, Work OS. If
you're building software for
enterprises, you've probably felt the
pain of integrating single signon, skim,
arbback, audit logs, and other features
required by big customers. Work OS turns
those deal blockers into drop-in APIs
with a modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SAS. Whether you're
a seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support where they have real engineers
in there who answer your questions super
fast. Work OS allows you to build like
the best with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready today.
This episode is brought to you by Vzero
from Versell. Vzero is the web
development assistant designed for
professionals of all technical
backgrounds. Whether you're a product
manager, designer, or developer,
transform how you bring products to
life. With VZero, everybody can cook.
Don't just show up to reviews with docs
and ideas. Arrive with working
prototypes that demonstrate real
functionality. Vzero drafts project
plans, generates interactive interfaces,
and builds full stack applications
without writing a single line of code.
And with features like AI and database
integrations, screenshot import, and
sync with GitHub, Vzero helps reduce
development bottlenecks and enhance
collaboration between technical and
non-technical team members. The result,
faster iteration and a shorter path from
idea to implementation. Versel built
V0ero for the builders who want to
create at the moment of inspiration. If
you can dream it, you can ship it. Visit
verscell.com/lenny
to get started. That's
versell.com/lenny.
Elena, thank you so much for being here
and welcome back to the podcast.
>> Thank you for having me. As you know,
this is uh a record fourth time back to
the podcast. No one else has ever
achieved this feat. I feel like you're
uh you're basically my co-host now.
>> I love it. Thank you for inviting me
back. I'm very proud record holder in
this regard.
>> What I love about you coming back each
time is feels like every time you come
back, you're just doing something even
more epic and exciting. And so these
days, as we'll hear in the intro, you're
head of growth at Lovable, which no big
deal, on track to be uh the fastest or
one of the fastest growing companies in
history, uh depending on the metric that
you track. Let's talk about just the
scale and growth of Lovable to give
people a sense of just how incredible
this is. I'll share a bit of this in the
intro, but just like what are some stats
you can share about just how things are
going at Loveable?
>> So, uh we are just a little bit over one
years old since we launched. Uh the
company actually did exist as a GPT
engineer before, but it officially
launched in the third week of November
last year in 2024.
So uh for us, we've hit over $200
million in annual recurring revenue
before we even hit our one-year uh
milestone since being launched, which is
pretty incredible. Uleni actually have a
really great um blog post on how quickly
it takes for companies usually to get to
their first million AR and it's usually
multiple years. So this is definitely a
unicorn. I don't think this is a
standard. There's couple of things that
um account for it and we can talk about
it and the growth is only accelerating.
So it's compounding which is great
because we had our 100 million in end of
July and just four months later we were
at 200 million. So 7 months to well
maybe 8 months to 100 million another 4
months to get to 200 million. And from
uh users too we already have over 8
million users um that have tried
lovable. We have as you can imagine to
feed that 200 million hundreds of
thousands of paid subscribers as well
that are paying for us. Uh so things are
things are going great and we'll talk
about why.
>> Okay. Absurd. I think people are getting
used to these insane numbers and not
long ago is like okay if you hit a
million ARR in a year you're doing
pretty well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's still you're
doing pretty well if you have a million
AR in one year. This is uh this is one
of the once in a lifetime type of
companies and the category the way that
it's evolving. So I want to make sure
that people don't also set this as a
benchmark for success because it should
never be and in some categories it might
be even faster um as we continue
evolving technology but I don't think
that it's realistic to expect it um out
of your business that you're starting
right now.
>> That is such an important point you're
making there. It's so discouraging to
founders to hear this these stories of
getting 200 million not and again this
is ARR. There's a lot of companies,
especially in the data labeling space,
I've had them all on the podcast that
are uh very fast growing, but they're
not recurring revenue. There's also they
pay out their people to do this data
labeling. So, the revenue numbers there
don't really equate like recurring $200
million a year is absurd.
>> Yeah, it is. It is absurd. I really want
to make sure that people understand as
we go through this episode as to why
it's happening because part of it is
unlovable, part of it is just in the
market and and how it's moving. So when
you're setting yourself as a benchmark
uh so you know which benchmarks you
actually to use and whether lovable is
the benchmark that you should be using.
>> Cool. I'm going to get into that next.
Last question just I want to see what
you can share here. A lot of people look
at these numbers. A lot of people are
very skeptical. These are lasting
durable numbers. Like who are these
people? How is there $200 million being
spent on lovable? Anything you can amp
just like give people confidence. This
is real. This is going to last. This is
a really durable business.
>> Well, I saw Stripe receipts. So, it is
real as far as I'm concerned. Um, unless
Stripe dashboard is lying to us, but it
is money getting deposited in our bank
account. But, uh, let's talk about who's
actually contributing to that number. We
do have a really large use case of
people uh, starting their own companies
on lovable. So we call it a founder use
case where somebody that is nontechnical
that has never been able to code or
create a piece of software is now able
to come in and actually build an app
completely from scratch and uh some of
them are already monetizing it some of
it just using it for lead genen for
other services or uh some physical goods
for example that they're uh that they're
selling. Some of them are just still
building and uh we monetize on the act
of building. So that progression of like
building up to your product market fit
takes quite a bit of time. And even with
lovable, we're so much more efficient
and effective compared to hiring an
engineer uh in terms of the price. But
um it still takes time. Uh so we have a
lot of founders uh whether it's B2C, whe
there's B2B, so consumer products,
business products, e-commerce, um
whatever it is. But on the other side,
we have a lot of employees within
companies using lovable as well. Uh
where they're building internal tools or
they're building prototypes, they're
building landing pages. So uh that is
another use case that is very relevant
and quite uh efficient for us. But then
there is a hype and discovery that is
happening as well because uh when I
think about software I think about it. I
talked to John Cuddler actually and he
gave me this framework that is like
completely stuck in my mind of software
always goes through capabilities stage
first like what is possible uh to
actually create with this then it needs
to transition into value of how is it
that am I going to get value out of this
and then you can start thinking about
scaling it uh of which aspects of my
life and my work uh can this actually go
in and we're right now very much in the
capability stage with vibe coding
because everybody's just exploring what
can I do and And the beautiful thing
here is that what you can do changes
every month to three months. So, uh you
constantly need to come back and you
need to see what has changed. So, a lot
of people use it for personal reasons.
Um they I build myself uh apps, tutoring
apps for my kid. So, he has to answer
questions in order to get some screen
time accumulated for him. I build my own
portfolio. I see people doing wonderful
things. My favorite story that I always
say, uh there's this um man that created
a proposal on lovable. So his fiance had
to answer questions and like she had to
complete this game and then at the end
there was like this big reveal and he
proposed to her. But people just unlock
the most creative things that they build
on lovable and that's where the revenue
is coming from. the one piece that is
working very well for us in terms of how
our monetization model is set up and how
it interjects with your activation
moment which we can also cover but that
is what's driving um that um both
conversion and retention rates.
>> Let me ask you one question that's on
people's minds I imagine as you talk
about this just what is what is
retention look like? Yeah. So retention
uh really I look at it in two ways. Uh
retention that it comes as a subscriber
retention. Uh so how much pay
subscribers do we get and how many of
them are we capable of renewing. There's
also very important aspect of it is how
many of them can we expand because if
you can get positive or above 100% net
dollar retention which is super
important metric for investors. If you
don't know about net dollar retention
please read it up. That's like a
superpower to get bigger multiple. if
you can show um NDR that is over 100 and
then there's actually engagement
retention as well because uh that is the
leading indicator for how your paid
retention is going to look like for paid
retention um I know there's a so much on
the market of oh this is a high product
and um it just it's a leaky bucket and
it has really high churn rates although
um I'm not I shouldn't share it's not
public numbers for us to share actual
retention however what I can say it's on
par with benchmarks of other B2B SAS
products that I've ever worked at and I
worked with Miro, Dropbox, uh Survey
Monkey, Netifi, um Amplitude and others.
So, are we are we absolutely crushing
with paid retention? Um no, are we where
most of the other companies are? Yes.
Our NDR is quite good because when
people build, they want to buy more
credits to bill. So, uh, we're seeing
really good, uh, revenue retention, but
we're honestly more focused right now on
engagement retention than even paid
retention because our northstar is just
to get as much usage as possible. And,
uh, we will fix and tune our
monetization model afterwards. So,
engagement retention, I would say, is a
by far bigger priority focus for us at
the moment.
>> That is incredibly uh, interesting and
optimistic to hear because of the growth
rate. Uh rarely is growth rate this high
and retention is on par with great
companies.
>> Yeah. And I'll just say too which is a
little bit maybe counterintuitive to
would be to a lot of companies we don't
optimize for revenue at all. In fact
internally we have a lot of discussions
about how can we give more products
away. How can we uh reduce our revenue
growth rate by just getting more paid
subscribers, more users using lovable to
just get bigger share of the market. So
our revenue is an outcome of us just
trying to get more people through the
door, not us trying to optimize for
revenue per user or to get them to
monetize at the higher rate. So there's
like a very interesting path here where
by actually focusing on the inputs like
you should, it translates to a good
output. But we don't look at that output
as something that we're trying to grow.
>> Let's talk about growth. Let's talk
about what you've learned about growth
in this space. You had this post online
where you said that you've had to throw
out most of your growth playbook.
>> This is a huge deal. You've led growth a
lot of really successful companies.
>> Lovable is growing incredibly well. Uh
this tells me there's a lot we can learn
from what you've seen. So tell us what
you're seeing, what's still working,
what's not working, what you've uh
learned about what it takes to drive
growth at a company like Lovable. Yeah,
I would say that in any other role that
I've come into before, uh I felt
confident in about 80% of the patterns
that I can bring to that role. Meaning
that I can identify inputs, understand
which framework kind of applies. I know
a bunch of examples that fit in within
that framework. So we just need to
localize a solution and push and it was
quite productive in terms of getting a
company those additional acquisition,
conversion, engagement, monetization
rates. So um I I felt very repetitive in
a way um after some time because I feel
like I'm just coming in and copy pasting
copy pasting and although every single
company loves to say that they have
unique problems at the end of the day
all of the problems were very similar
and I felt like I was like doing the
same job over and over again when I
started at lovable the one thing to me
that was very clear is that uh this
company was growing like crazy before I
joined. So I want to make sure that
there's not that much value on what I
have even added to date because this
company is on a tear and yes we're
rounding the edges to and removing
barriers for growth. Uh so we're not
standing in our own way but uh there's
something more magical happening here
that is not a pattern that I've ever
seen before. It's not a framework that I
can even conceptualize um in my head.
And plus, it's a new category that I've
never seen or I've never been in a
company that is in a new emerging
category that hits fastmoving waters so
quickly. And that's the difference
because when you're usually trying to
create a new category, it takes years. I
know it's every marketer's dream to
create a new category, but it takes
decades often to like really to really
get that much hype and adoption around
it. Versus with Vibe coding, this has
seemed to have happened really quickly.
It's like it's hit the nerve with the
market. So yes, we're at the right
place, we're at the right time, but
we're also in really fastm moving waters
and um the demand that is coming to us
like we need to capture it mostly. We
don't need to generate a lot of it yet.
But at the same time, it comes with a
really big downfalls of we're not in
control of a lot of our growth. I mean,
let's be honest about it. There's so
much incredible word of mouth that is
happening and we're trying to grow that
but uh to enable as much of that as
possible but um it's the company is
moving. We're just like hanging on to it
as fast as possible and making sure that
the we're like not going to hit a wall
so to speak in front of us and that the
wheels are greased and that all of the
pieces are in place. like your race car
framework uh that you have as well that
like we're we're really just putting a
lot of oil into it and um figuring out
what is our engine actually going to be
that is going to take us forward. But uh
when I'm thinking about the patterns
here and what I have to unlearn, I feel
like only 30 to 40% of what I've learned
in the last 15 to 20 years of being in
growth transfers here. And uh some of it
is very straightforward. Okay, this is
how you're going to do paid marketing.
this is how you're going to do some of
the habitual retention. Here's the free
to pay maybe monetization uh frameworks
that still stand. But the rest of it um
seriously doesn't feel like it even
matters anymore because we just need to
invest in such bigger bets and innovate
and create new growth loops here as
opposed to trying to optimize it uh to
the moon and be and beyond uh which
would I usually be focused on in a scale
business like this.
>> Let's follow those threads. So what is
it that no longer is worth it in this
bucket of just like let's not spend any
time on this thing and then what do you
find is actually moving the needle
>> not worth it in growth uh most of the
people spend most of the time optimizing
existing user journeys. So, uh, you
already have maybe some of your growth
loops that you understand that you try
to optimize or you just know, hey,
there's big drop offs from acquisition
to activation. Let me go figure out how
to I can tweak the dials to get it done.
Here, what I find is that um,
optimizations are just not worth our
time. So, a lot of the times my growth
team actually ends up working on new
features or just standing up new growth
loops one after another. And yes, there
is of of course the saying of like more
growth loops does not mean more growth.
But at the same time, the market is
moving so quickly. You need to stand up
a bunch of initiatives uh to capture it
because it's perishable or we also have
so much competition. We're not alone
here. So we can't ignore that there's
everybody in their mother is starting a
VIP coding business nowadays and we need
to figure out how to be ahead of them.
and to be ahead of them is not
optimization of the problem. It's
reinvention of the solution. So I just
feel like I usually spend maybe 5% maybe
10% if I'm lucky innovating on growth in
my roles uh in my previous roles. Right
now I'm spending 95% innovating on
growth and only 5% on optimization. And
most of my frameworks are on
optimization because it's really hard to
come up with frameworks for innovation
because by default they're by definition
they're innovative.
>> What I'm hearing here is uh new features
launching new features, new products as
one of the bigger growth levers versus
like you have a bunch of cool stuff make
it more make it easier to use increase
activation reduce friction things like
that.
>> Yeah. And for example, um we on growth
team launched uh integration with
Shopify to enable e-commerce use case
because we're like hey there's already
people trying to come in and do it and
Shopify was open for integration with
us. Let's go lean into it so people can
vibe code their storefronts. Uh that
came out of growth that usually would
never come out of growth. like why would
growth team ever invest into a core
product integration or we um enable
voice mode for people so they can
actually chat with lovable using their
voice as opposed to only having type and
um that's also it's a feature it's a
core product feature but we're like hey
it's going to help people to converse
with lovable more it's going to increase
the engagement one area that we've spent
very little time in is activation
because usually I spend majority of my
time in activation because there's so
many awareness things that need to
happened and uh so many things that uh
we we need to like smooth out experience
for the users in order for them to get
through that setup moment to aha moment
to that habit loop and here you're just
interacting with agent. So uh we at the
beginning were like the agent team that
we have here is working a lot on it like
why would we go in there and and do
anything is like our core team is
responsible for activation. Now we're
starting to move into doing agent work
ourselves. So all of a sudden growth
team is not just doing product surfaces
now we're doing agentic workflows um and
codifying agent instructions in order
for customers to activate better. So the
work fundamentally I feel like has
gotten deeper into product and deeper
into actual core product functionality
as opposed to just being a smoothing
surface on the outer layers.
>> Okay, that is also a very big deal.
Every growth person that's ever been on
this podcast, including you, always
talks about the power of activation.
Just the how much opportunity there is
constant to get people to this aha
moment, realize how the value of this
product that increases retention,
increases everything. And what you're
saying here is you barely spend any time
on activation because in a company like
Lovable, there's a prompt. You give it
what you want, it generates a thing, and
that's basically all it is. And so the
impact is to make that agent better at
that thing versus microoptimize every
step.
>> And our agent team spends night and day
thinking about it. So I've never been at
the company where core team thinks so
much about activation, think so much
about that first generation, thinks so
much about reaching aha moment. So it's
more weaved in into DNA of the overall
company which takes the pressure off of
me to only have to focus on it because
otherwise yeah I would be in that in
that experience all the time but I feel
a lot more at ease because everybody's
thinking about it and everybody's
working on making agent better and agent
the beauty of it is it doesn't matter if
it's actually first generation or if
it's your nth generation it just needs
to be a better generation agent needs to
understand your intent better and think
and reason behind behind it. So it like
improves the entire life cycle
immediately as opposed to having to only
work on that first experience per se.
>> And what you're not saying is don't care
about that experience. It's the team
building that is already obsessed with
making that activation experience
better.
>> And I I love that because I that's the
core product functionality at this
point. And before uh people would spend
more time building deeper features or
deeper use cases or trying to um improve
some platform functionality and now the
core team they're obsessed about that
first experience because that is core
product.
>> Another lever that I've noticed
especially with lovable and I'm seeing
it more and more in social media is just
founders telling you what's going on. I
think this connects really deeply with
the new features. Launch new features.
Say Anton is just like hey check out
this cool new thing. Check out our
growth numbers. Is that a big growth
lever too?
>> Yeah. So, one of our biggest strategy is
uh building in public. Uh building in
public and it's coupled with employee
socials, founder socials for sure. Uh
this is difficult for larger companies,
but when you're smaller and you still
have a little bit more narrative control
uh with uh with everybody on your team,
plus you have so much more trust within
your organization of whether people are
going to say the right things because
they understand what actually has
happened. Uh that ability to just really
quickly deliver the message to the
market becomes really important. Now we
still do big launches. So we still have
everything tiered into tier three, tier
one. Like tier ones are going to happen
as like big moments that we're going to
really rally as a company behind and
it's going to be something that um is
meant to step function change our
product market fit and uh we're going to
do a bunch of activities behind it. But
at the same time, what's really
important to us is to maintain noise in
the market. And that noise in the market
happens by us shipping every day, every
other day, multiple times per day and
just talking about it constantly.
Interestingly enough, it's actually
works as fantastic resurrection strategy
because people like, "Oh, there's more
things here. Like, I need to go check it
out." It also works as great
re-engagement strategy. So, instead of
sending newsletters to say like, "Here's
the market trends or here's the user
stories." Like, people are like
literally logging into their social to
see like, "Okay, what has lovable
shipped now?" like what what what is the
change? So, it's interesting to them to
see because from the time that they
voice their opinion on what needs to
happen to actual delivery is so short.
So, they feel heard and they are heard
because that's how we uh prioritize all
of the things that we're shipping. But,
it's interesting because
I've never been in a company that tries
to maintain so much just shipping
velocity to maintain certain amount of
noise that it feels like the product is
alive. it's changing every single week.
And then there's like these big
amplifications, turbo boosts so to speak
in the race car model uh that then go
out and they fundamentally create a step
function change in that product market
fit as a whole. And uh that is a
retention strategy I can get behind any
day and all day. I only hope that we can
maintain it as we continue scaling.
>> Sounds stressful. This reminds me I had
Garav. He is the CEO of uh Mirage used
to be called Captions which is a really
successful AI video company startup and
they have a policy of you ship a a
marketable feature every week.
>> That's how their company operates and
it's the same thing is just ship things
you can talk about.
>> Velocity of shipping is our number one
core value in development team. So we do
anything and everything to just keep it
going up up up and um into the right.
And by the way, this is also means that
everybody is a little has a little bit
of marketer within them. This is uh we
have very lean product organization. We
actually lean on our engineers uh to do
a lot of product work. We call them
product engineers. Uh and uh they have
to go and they have to announce the
thing that they've shipped. It doesn't
just funnel through marketing. So
there's a lot of uh autonomy, a lot of
agency that needs to happen with this
with this type of velocity because
marketing team otherwise you have to
have like enormous marketing team to
staff that. So it has to come with some
roles and responsibilities uh
redefinition on the team as well.
>> Let's talk about marketing. That's
something else you've written about is
just marketing is changing in a big way
their role in growth. How does marketing
play a role in all of this? On one side,
marketing channels are changing. On the
other side, marketing's involvement into
everything that product does is
changing. And then number three, I think
even marketing organizations in terms of
where they're hired the most um are
changing as a result as well. So I'll
talk about second one first just because
we just talked about shipping and that
is um yeah you still have your product
marketers, you still have your channel
managers um but they focus more on the
big things and the narratives although
it's difficult because the narrative
even changes all the time as these
functionalities come through. Usually
you can come up with the positioning and
messaging and you can have it for years
and and create all of the campaigns
around it. Now you have it for three
months and then the product changes. So
like the cycles here are really uh
really short and uh for smaller changes
because cycles are so short they spend
so much time actually focusing on it as
they should that some of these smaller
changes just cannot be supported by
marketing. You have to delegate it to
your product and engineering team to do
their own marketing because otherwise
again you're going to have to have
enormous marketing team in order to
support it all. But at the same time,
channels in which marketing right now
works I think are changing quite a bit
and um not enough people I feel like are
freaking out and talking about it as
opposed to like moving just in the same
direction over and over again. And the
changes that I'm seeing is that it is
very has been very clear to me that when
you're talking about organic strategy,
if you marketing organic strategy, if
you asked me that five years ago, I
would have said that's SEO. It's search
engine optimization. go on Google.
That's your organic marketing strategy.
If you ask me what's the organic
marketing strategy right now, to me,
it's all about social, which is what is
my CEO posting? What is my team posting?
What is my LinkedIn? What is my creator
economy doing in influencer marketing?
And um across all of the social
platforms, that is my organic, which is
that one's kind of paid to be fair, but
when I think about organic, there is
still a lot of that word of mouth. What
are my users posting on social? What are
they talking about it? what are they uh
what are they sharing which is like a
mind shift because I've been always
especially in B2B so focused on search
and now I feel like it's been completely
pushed even further into consumerization
territory and it has become all about
social no matter how B2B you are because
that's where eyeballs are at
>> that is fascinating and so when you talk
about socials what are you finding is
most helpful is it Twitterx is it
LinkedIn is it YouTube Tik Tok Instagram
>> for founder socials uh O employee
socials um X and LinkedIn are fantastic
sources. Um especially for B2B because
that's where all of the B2B people are
at. But you cannot just have Chad GPT
write your copy and post it. You need to
show personality like there needs to be
humanity uh that it goes through it. And
it's not natural for everybody and it
feels very awkward sometimes to start.
Uh but it's important to people to see
who's building the company because
there's so much competition now on
functionality so they can rally behind a
team. So they want to have a team that
they want to win and for that you need
to be vulnerable. You need to be
authentic obviously but you just need to
be yourself. Uh so like that corporate
scrubbing has to completely fall off
which um is obviously going to pull in
as as the company scales but at least at
the beginning that is a chance to stand
out and then your customers posting
about you. So that word of mouth of uh
really creating a product that creates
something for customers that is worth
talking about. It gives them stories
that they want to share that feels
empowering to them to tell to others
like they're unlocking a secret like
they feel proud of what they have
created which what we focus a lot on
lovable on to have that feeling of oh my
gosh I have superpowers now and I can't
wait to tell others I cannot wait to
show others what is happening so on both
of those sides to me that is very much
organic um if you're in a consumer then
Instagram Tik Tok um are very much a go
as well.
>> So here it's uh the CEO clearly is an
important uh variable in this them in
this case Anton just tweeting here's
what's going on lovable here's how fast
it's growing here's some we've learned
>> uh we had the CEO of gamma uh on
recently Grant and he's exactly the same
thing just sharing a bunch of lessons
journey building in public a big part of
the growth lever and your point here is
okay so it's the co but then it's also
how do you get your customers to share
things on socials and then there's a
paid uh influencer sort of component
>> yes uh the customer is difficult one,
that's a word of mouth loop that you
need to stand up. The only way to create
a word of mouth loop is just to blow
their socks off uh when they actually
experience your product. We have a
really almost unfair advantage because
our product is called lovable. So by
default, we're trying to create an
absolute lovable experiences. Like that
is a mentality internally. If it's not
lovable, we're not going to ship it. So
uh and the best way to fix a bug at
lovable is to say this is not lovable.
like when everybody's just like jumps on
it. Uh to fix it right there and then
sprints, no sprints, it doesn't matter.
It's getting fixed right now. So, uh
from that perspective, we kind of have
that culture already embedded as part of
our brand and it's part of our name,
which helps us a lot. But that's the
point is that you feel that brand
through every interaction. Uh I talk to
my designer all the time. How can we add
more love marks into the product? How
can we prioritize more unique
interactions? the little elements that
make up that that feeling of this
product is speaking to me. It's like it
feels something like that is unique. It
has personality uh behind it. So we put
all of the brand work actually into our
product. When you think about lovable
think people think about a brand but we
don't have a brand marketing team yet.
So it's all just through product
interactions and some of those building
and public moments of the people behind
uh those product interactions. Um that
is our strategy. And then there's
influencer marketing. Interestingly
enough, influencer marketing is 10 times
bigger for us than paid social. So yeah,
we do some paid social as well. Um, and
it's working decently. It's quite
expensive from payback period. Um, we're
still optimizing it. As I said, we're
pretty early on in all of these
channels, but influencer marketing is
something that has worked uh from the
beginning. a lovable and uh reason
behind it is that influencer marketing
especially on the socials it gives you
an opportunity to have a little video
and interaction and lovable is all about
seeing like oh my gosh this is what I
can do and uh this is possible so that
drives people to go and try it
themselves so that's why social works
very well for us because it's not really
a written value proposition like nobody
knows what bite coding is but you watch
10 seconds of it and you go that's new
let me go give it a try
>> who would have thought that a head of
growth who is traditionally seen as like
data metrics, spreadsheets, drive KPIs
is like, okay, how do we make this more
lovable? How do we add more moments of
delight? I know my my my joke is like at
the end of my lovable journey whenever
hopefully never comes to an end, but but
at the end I'll be like a growth brand
person here. Here, hi, my name is Elena.
I do brand now. But I I actually see it
as part of growth strategy to make sure
that that brand shines through every
single interaction. Um and I always talk
to my team about it because that is one
big lever in our growth story.
>> Yeah. So I think that's a really
important point to highlight. The reason
Lovable is growing so fast is it is a
product people love. You've made
something people want and the word of
mouth spreads because it's something
that blows people's socks off as you
said. So it feels like that's the first
thing you got to get right.
>> Yes. Well, the first thing you have to
get right is you have to be at the right
place at the right time and you have to
be in fastmoving waters. Like let's not
discount how fast this category is
exploding on its own. So this cannot
happen in every single category that
you're starting to build a product. But
the way to stand out in the super
crowded category is to create
experiences that speak to people. That I
think is something that a lot of people
deprioritize because they still
prioritize functionality over humanity
within software. And I think that we're
actually moving to the new era of
software that needs to feel human that
people want to interact with not just
utility of it because cost of software
is coming down so much to develop that
we now can actually invest into
emotional feel of that software as
opposed to only just focus on creating
the utility out of it. So to me it's um
it's a I I I love this move because I I
hate nothing more than going to software
that is just like so painful to use that
I lose some brain cells uh as I'm
interacting with it versus software that
I feel I get energy out of and for
lovable for me like I cannot wait on
some of the projects that I have to go
and vibe code myself like that's the
highlight of my day and I just like I
don't I I I bring in my daughter and I'm
like let's go do this like what do you
think that needs to be done because I
just get so energy out of doing it and
uh that is the feeling you cannot create
by looking at it as a utility problem.
>> The way I think about it, the way what
you're describing is it's almost table
stakes have increased and now it's so
easy to build. Now the big
differentiator is experience, design,
delight.
>> Exactly. And it has to translate through
every single interaction. So your
designer has to be one of your first
hires now in startups. It's not just
about the the engineering so to speak
utility and you have to think through
every single interaction of does this
communicate our brand or not.
>> So along those lines I want to come back
to something you talked about which is
launching new features is a huge growth
lever. Kind of the big question there is
just how do you maintain quality and
cohesiveness as all these people are
empowered to ship stuff. Is there
anything else there you've seen that
works well to help avoid just a
Frankenstein product just endless
features that you want to tweet about?
Yeah, one part of it is not something
that you can codify, but it's the type
of people that you hire that are going
to go and ship these things. We at
Lovable try to hire the absolute best
talent available out there that we can
bring in and that we can source and that
we can attract uh to grow with. And what
do I mean by that best talent? Um it's
not that somebody who has been at really
large companies or somebody that has
really uh done a lot of logos or has big
success stories behind them. It's
somebody who is extremely passionate
about their job. It's their hobby. They
love to work. They have fire in their
belly. This is not a paycheck for them.
They want to do this for some ulterior
reason. This is the biggest opportunity
of their life. So this is global maxima
against any other opportunities that are
in front of them at the moment. So
that's very important for us. We want
people to come and do their absolute
best work at lovable. It's very
important and you can feel it in this
office. People are wired up. They are so
high on how can we make this better? How
can we deliver more to our customers?
And that's very different compared to
usually how companies grow. We're like,
okay, yeah, the check, check, check.
They fit the skill set. Let's bring them
in. But is that passion? Is that fire
behind it? And then uh the second piece
is that um we work really hard on just
addressing what's the success here looks
like? What is it that we're building?
what use cases are we building for? And
then because we hire these people that
are so passionate about it, the other
two skills, by the way, that are super
important is high agency and high
autonomy, I can figure out things that
are tangential to me that I don't need
other specialty, so to speak. Like I
don't need a marketer to go launch
something. I can go figure it out and I
have high agency. I can go do it myself.
Um I'm going to own it from all the way
from start to finish. uh those are very
important, something that we screen for
and something that we look for in our
culture and then uh you just see what
you want to do is up to you. So there's
very little supervision that happens on
the ground. Um now we all have a goals
and like some of the big launches that
we're all marching towards but some of
the work um that is completely up to
developers up to uh marketers or
whatever what is it that they want to
do. So there has to be that enablement
of go try things and because of our
velocity if you fail it's not a big deal
we'll just pivot we'll go we'll get
we'll get through it we are not here to
just win all the time
>> on the hiring of these incredible people
as we all know it's very hard to hire
people these days especially the best
what have you seen lovable does
differently or does well that helps them
recruit the best
>> yes and especially recruit in Stockholm
I mean the main office here is in
Stockholm we're asking a lot of people
to relocate uh which is a no small feat.
Now some of it is um makes it easy
because of how much hype we created
around our product. People want to come
work for us like there's um they're
reaching out to us. They're saying I I
love what you're doing. I want to join
it. Uh so that we have a cheat code to
it because like we have most of the time
when we reach out to somebody they say
yeah I would love to explore. So uh
building that product that is highly
lovable also creates a really great
recruiting brand for you as well. So
make sure that there like multiple
benefits to that. But uh second of all
we do a lot of trials uh for people. So
trial work to see them in action
>> a work trial to see them in action for a
couple of days. We pay them as part of
the work trial. We have uh some
probation periods that we start people
on uh because this company is not for
everybody. As I start said in the
podcast in in the beginning, the pace
here is insane. I went on vacation uh
for the first time. So I've been here
for 6 months. I went on vacation um for
10 days. I came back. I felt like I
needed to on board from the beginning.
Like everything changed. And when I'm in
it, I feel like it's an evolution. But
the fact that just being gone for 10
days, it feels like a complete
revolution in the company. It's that
pace is just not for everybody. And
that's okay because I'm very firm
believer that there's different cultures
and different environments that the best
fit for different personalities and
different people. So we try to be very
upfront with how things are and how
chaotic they are. And we prioritize
people that don't look for clarity but
can create clarity out of chaos because
um it is absolutely chaotic otherwise.
And if we start to look for people that
can explain it uh to us, that's the only
way that we can succeed.
>> The way you describe going on vacation
and feeling very different, it feels
like when you don't see your kid for a
few days and they're just like
completely different. You're like, "How
did you grow so fast in 3 days?"
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Let me try to
summarize the growth levers that you're
finding is are working. And I'm trying
to think about this from the perspective
of uh an AI startup trying to think
about, hey shoot, how do we grow faster?
What is lovable figured out? So feels
like number one is just uh build
something lovable, something that blows
people's socks off, but also in a market
that is growing that people want to pay
money for like you can build something
lovable that nobody actually cares about
that there isn't much money going to the
space. There's no tide pushing it
forward and it won't work. I call it
minimum lovable product. Like it
shouldn't be minimum viable product
anymore. Viability is left in back in
2020 2010s. Now it's minimum lovable
product. That's the only thing that
matters.
>> I love how these AI tools are letting us
you know like PMS have always had these
um what are they uh smoke door test or
like what's the term just like or is
that not a real product? Uh
>> painted door.
>> Painted door. There it is. Yeah. And and
it's like okay we just have a landing
page. There's nothing there. And now AI
makes it easier to do that and it's like
more fullfeatured.
>> Yeah. Well, it's the feedback cycle is
just completely collapsed. You can go
from idea to some product uh that is
functioning to user feedback within a
day if you want to. I mean depending on
how fast that you want to run or how
complex the product is for missions. It
took us couple of weeks to vip code it
to the point to where because we also um
I have a full-time vip coder on my team.
He's amazing. So like he he wanted to
create videos like he did a bunch of
designs for it uh too. So we he he took
him a couple of weeks. We're testing it
now and then we'll push it in the
product. But it's a completely different
development life cycle. Before uh it
would just take so many more steps uh
from user research to uh the design
sprints uh to prioritizing on
engineering roadmap to build something
minimal and and viable to actually test
to little long testing cycles. Now it's
just like boom, let's go. Uh, it's taken
us could have taken us a day. We just
decided to take a couple of weeks to get
all of the video pieces correct.
>> I saw you launched this on LinkedIn. I
to me it looked like a a full product
launch. Uh, it is interesting to hear.
This is just a sort of prototype.
>> Yes.
>> Prototype.
>> Minimum level.
>> Minimum level. Okay. Uh, I got to ask
you have this. You said you had a
full-time vibe coder. What the heck is
this? Is this like an engineer? Is this
something else? What is a full-time vibe
coder?
>> Great question. This is a new job role
that is actually popping up here and
there. Uh it's absolutely fascinating to
watch uh this development because I see
vibe coding as a skill being added to a
lot of job descriptions for designers,
for product managers, uh for marketers,
which I think is a really interesting
shift. Finally, Excel can move over like
we have a new skill to add that is um
super empowering and and not three years
old, but uh vibe coder. So uh his name
is Lazar and he actually was chief of
staff in his previous role. So he's not
technical at all. He's self-taught uh in
technical aspects of it but he was very
early on in the vibe coding wave. So he
learned a lot about it. He was um user
of all of the vibe coding tools lovable
included. And uh when I was coming into
the role I'm like I have so many
projects that I will vibe code myself.
So I run this uh woman only hackathon
she builds. I vip coded the first
version of that site and like and
submission process for applications and
then other people came in and started
building on top of it. But I vip code
but then like I don't have enough time
sometimes because I need to run around
and I want to push out so many different
initiatives that I want to test in the
market with our own products. So um we
connected on social um like can you like
would you join us and he joined us for
uh part-time uh like you're bringing so
much value for example we partnered with
Shopify and he created a bunch of
Shopify lovable templates uh by coded
for us and it's been so helpful uh to
have somebody like that that is just
like pushing all all of these things out
and he's an absolute expert so he's
teaching us all too of what is possible
with lovable because he's on the cutting
edge of constantly pushing it to the
limit. So, I I really enjoy having that
role, which I've never had before in my
life and in my team.
>> I I'm not surprised. I've I've never
heard of this role before as a real
full-time job. Do you think this is a
thing people will start hiring for at
non vibe coding companies?
>> So, I vibe code myself. So, like I would
put that as even as a skill on my on my
resume now. It took me a while to figure
out by the way like everybody's like,
"Oh, you just go and like it and it all
happens automatically." It takes you a
couple of iterations, couple of projects
until like you know, okay, this is this
is how I need to translate it, how I
need to think about it. But for me, it's
when I started scaling of what I want to
vibe code. That's where his value really
came in because I'm like, okay, I
understand what is possible. I know what
needs to be achieved. And some of these
apps I want to be almost full-blown
built uh because they're not going to
get incorporated into the product
anytime soon. They don't need to be.
I'll just link to them from uh from our
headers, so to speak. and uh he really
accelerated that velocity for me. So
once you get into VIP coding and you see
its value within your organization,
leaning into somebody like that just
accelerates your velocity because it is
like an engineer uh on your team. It's
just they're not to me he's his part his
part technical but they can be
nontechnical if they're really good.
>> That is fascinating. This episode is
brought to you by Persona, the verified
identity platform helping organizations
onboard users, fight fraud, and build
trust. We talk a lot on this podcast
about the amazing advances in AI. But
this can be a double-edged sword. For
every wow moment, there are fraudsters
using the same tech to wreak havoc,
laundering money, taking over employee
identities, and impersonating
businesses. Persona helps combat these
threats with automated user, business,
and employee verification. Whether
you're looking to catch candidate fraud,
meet age restrictions, or keep your
platform safe, Persona helps you verify
users in a way that's tailored to your
specific needs. Best of all, Persona
makes it easy to know who you're dealing
with without adding friction for good
users. This is why leading platforms
like Etsy, LinkedIn, Square, and Lyft
trust Persona to secure their platform.
Persona is also offering my listeners
500 free services per month for one full
year. Just head to withpersona.com/lenny
to get started. That's
withpersona.com/lenny.
Thanks again to Persona for sponsoring
this episode. Let me kind of go back to
summarize just real quick the growth
lovers. I want to move in a somewhat
different direction. So things that help
Lovable grow. One is just build
something in mind that blows your socks
off as you said. Uh I love these phrases
out here. The second is uh make noise in
the market. And the way that Lovable
does this SEO is tweeting constantly.
You build something that blows people's
socks off so that they share things on
socials themselves. Plus, this
influencer marketing component and just
this idea of building in public has been
really helpful. This point about
activation being kind of uh embedded
within the product team of the AI exper
of the AI agent essentially. So, it's
essentially not the growth team thinking
about activation. It's the product team
that is building the AI magic that is
obsessed with activation and it feels
like those are the main the main growth
levers. Is there anything else that I
missed?
>> Community. I think community is really
important here because you need to bring
people together as they're exploring
these capabilities and as they're seeing
what's possible so they can bounce off
each other and they can help each other
out. So I would say community also
amplifies that word of mouth. It
amplifies all of the social posting. It
it amplifies retention mechanisms uh for
you as well. But community has been a
huge part of lovable success as well and
that's something that was started very
early on. It runs on discord so it's
nothing fancy. It's not like we build
anything completely from scratch for
ourselves. Um and it has hundreds of
thousands of members and it's um it's
very lively. We have community managers
that are making sure that all of the
questions get answered and the right
groups are being created. We have
incredible ambassador pro program now as
well of people uh doing it. So I would
say community here again of really
making software more human is very
important role. Now now obviously not
everybody can build a community but
maybe at least plugging in into
somebody's community is uh quite
important as well. And then there's
another one unless you have a question
on community.
>> No keep going. Another one is uh giving
your product away a lot. And for AI
products, it may feel counterintuitive
because they're so costly. Every single
interaction with an AI product cost
companies something. There's an LLM pass
through cost uh that is coming through.
And uh a lot of especially traditional
tech companies I see are gating AI
immediately behind a pay wall because uh
they're sitting on a really cush um high
margin profile. And the moment that you
start giving AI away for free, you're
like cutting into those uh margins with
like a like a knife through the butter.
Now, at the same time, AI being so new
and the capabilities being so new, you
have to remove the barrier of entry. You
have to give a lot of your product away
for free. But by the way, I don't just
mean premium. Premium to me is just like
a baseline. If you're in the new
category, you need to let people explore
what it is for free and get that initial
wow moment. It's not a ha moment, by the
way. It doesn't need to be aha moment
anymore. It just needs to be a wow
moment. And for lovable is that first
preview generation after your first
prompt, even though it's absolutely not
going to be complete thing of what you
want to build, but you just go this is
possible like I had no idea I want to
keep building. And it becomes an
addictive exercise. But we also give so
many of our lovable credits away to
every event to every hackathon. If you
want to host a lovable hackathon, we
will sponsor it and give all of the
participants credits away for free. So
we give them away as candy and we uh
basically track them over our LLM cost
on premium and giveaways as our
marketing costs and it doesn't go into
our uh something we need to reduce uh to
make our margins better. It goes into
this is something that we need to spend
more in because this is part of our
growth secret sauce.
>> Okay, I want to hear more about the
growth secret sauce. That is extremely
interesting. Uh I haven't heard of that
as a strategy and I can see why this
makes sense. If the strategy is blow
people's socks off so they could tell
their friends, post on all the socials.
The trick is get more people to try it.
And so this is and and it's such a new
crazy thing. Like why would I pay money?
Why would I even go take the effort to
like try sign up for an account if I
don't know what this is? because I don't
know what I'm doing with it. So, I could
see how this loop goes faster and faster
by giving it away.
>> Exactly. And again, this is very
uncomfortable sometimes for companies
that a either used to really AI
companies have lower profile of margins.
That's absolutely true. We to find an AI
company with 80 90% margin profile is
absolutely impossible. Let's be real.
We're all sitting somewhere in the 40%
uh or so, which is a lot smaller. So any
time that you look at those AI costs as
your cost center, that's when you're in
trouble. You fundamentally have to flip
the script and say, "I need to expose to
people of what is possible and I need to
remove the monetization friction out of
it." Because if you don't, nobody's ever
going to try it or you're going to be
very easily overtaken by a competitor
that will give it away. And let's face
it, once you hook people, they're more
likely going to stay with you. So you
obviously have to still work on the
retention strategy there. But if you can
have like for our case if somebody one
of our users stands up and say hey I'm
gonna have a hackathon at my work
unlovable
can you give us all some free credits to
play with why would we prevent a person
who wants to do all of the marketing and
activating job for us in their company
from using us? Of course we're like take
it. How much do you need? How much would
you like? We will sponsor it all. We
will give you anything that you need.
So, we're really leaning into people
that are wanting to show this magic to
those around you and empowering them as
much as possible. And um that is
something that is actually applies to
every single product. And I agree, this
is not a growth strategy that I've ever
applied in my life on like giving
product away as much as possible, but it
is something that uh is more and more
becoming something that I see that is
absolutely non-negotiable.
>> What I'm feeling is like the more
mind-blowing it is, the more you should
give it away for free.
>> Yeah. especially in a competitive market
where everyone is you know it's hard
there's like so many companies trying to
do this thing and so um so it's almost
like the better you are the more you
should give it away
>> right right
>> and this also explains why uh so much VC
money has to be raised for these sorts
of companies because this is not cheap
like you said you're paying all these
foundational models a lot of money
>> yes and no uh because I'm only going to
say no is because so take a look at
lovable we're two over 200 million in AR
at this point we're 100 people charge.
So our headcom count costs are
>> very Let me just let me just make sure
people hear that. 200 millionaire I
didn't realize 100 people work at
Lovable.
>> Yes. And 6 months ago we had 30 people
working at Lovable. So we triple. So for
us it's a really big deal. We tripled
our company size. Uh we're going to
quadruple it by the end of Yeah. I know
>> we're big boy and girls now. But for for
perspective of the headcount cost, it's
minimal. So we have very little in that
going on. We are not spending a lot on
paid marketing. So, we're not a big paid
marketing driver. Yeah, we're spending
on influencer marketing, but it's not
majority of our growth. It's uh low
double digits uh to to be fair because
it's it's not why we're successful. It's
amplifying our success and it's helping
us reach new audiences. Uh we don't have
really large sales team. We have only a
couple sales folks um and they're just
starting to ramp up their enterprise
efforts. So, we don't have like really
big enterprise demand gen costs as well.
So from that perspective, if you like
look at the equation and you say, well,
okay, if you're not going to do a lot of
paid marketing, if you're not going to
do a lot of sales because we're really
only working on hand raisers of people
that are saying right now that they want
to buy lovable, then where is like you
don't have big costs. So you can spend
it on product and that is the beautiful
part because you're not when we're
giving our product away to our
customers, we're not competing with
other companies in that space because
they're just going to use lovable in
their hackathon on their own and we're
not competing on AdWords or like in paid
Google where everybody's buying real
estate for eyeballs. So from that
perspective is I think about it more as
a shift of where we spend and cost and
honestly it's more efficient way to do
paid marketing almost in a sense uh
because of the cost per eyeball that we
get there is quite a bit lower compared
to if we were trying to compete it on
Google. So yes and no to your statement
because it actually does not deteriorate
margin profile. We're just shifting of
where we're spending it. That is an
incredibly important point you're making
there. So it's not like uh you're
generating an incredible amount of
revenue. Uh so there is money available
to spend and what you're saying is
because it's been spreading through word
of mouth mostly. You're not spending
tons of money on salespeople. You're not
spending tons of money on paid ads.
>> This is just uh an amazing way to get
more people to use it. So it's kind of
like a marketing cost.
>> This is productled growth.
>> Yeah.
>> To the max. Supercharged. Yes. because
you're literally using your product to
drive that awareness by giving it away
to the agents in your ecosystem that
will do that distribution for you.
>> So fascinating. What a what a wild world
we're living in. Free stuff for
everyone.
>> Yes. Yes. I mean, it's great for
consumers. This is a great time to be a
consumer. You have so many options. Like
everybody's throwing themselves at you,
giving your product away for free. So,
it's great to be in the market right
now. I think it's the the power should
be with consumer always but with
software power has not been with
consumer previously because we were
forced to use towards some solutions
because of either how they were chosen
for us or what was available in the
market and now that supply is almost
infinite the demand of from the
consumers can be very picky and the one
that serves the best will win
>> and I think again it's important to
highlight this is not some kind of VC
subsidized bubbleish sort of thing like
there is a lot of money being generated
that you are spending to help it grow
faster. It's not like some kind of we're
just raising more money to give away
more money. Like you're actually making
real money. It's not driving it's not
driven by VC money.
>> I I I can't comment on specific margin
details for us. Uh but at the same time,
the money that we're raising on VC is
for future development and hardening our
business.
>> Uh not because we will not be able to
survive without it.
>> Awesome. Okay, great segue too. I want
to talk about product market fit and
competition. you had this really
interesting post that I don't think
people uh grasp yet, which is that
product market fit is no longer this
like we've done it product market fit
and we're up and to the right now we
just grow grow now we hire sales people
it's going to be great uh you've written
that just product market fit is no
longer this like you've done it and
you're good it's this endless fight to
keep it talk about what you're seeing
there
>> so I'll first start with what I've felt
at least before when people were talking
about product market fit
that yeah obviously always product
market fit is an evolving thing but the
rate of that evolution was measured in
years and what is it that you need the
next product market fit step function
change which often was called second
horizon or third horizon sometimes five
10 years sometimes even longer that you
need that you depending on how good your
and hardy your initial product market
fit was but you'd spend years scaling
the original product market fit it was
like blitz growth stage marketing sales
growth was very important um that you
just try to get it to as many people as
possible and then once you have
saturation or the cost to getting to the
marginal people becomes too high, you
start thinking, okay, what else can I
offer to help me reach additional people
or sell more to existing users that I
already have? And again, the main point
here is it would take years to get to
that stage where it became a question
that you had to face um really hard face
to face. Now it's 3 months and all of a
sudden you have to face that question
again and it's happening because of two
things in my opinion. Number one in AI
technology of what LLM is capable of
doing changes still very rapidly with
new model release with each new model
release. So I think we're going to I
think we'll stabilize at some point and
it's going to become more marginal but
we're not there yet. So every 3 months
or so, every single AI LLM provider
creates a step function change on what
is possible with that LLM. And when you
have this new possibility in just an
underlying technology that opens up in
front of you, then it creates another
ceiling of what is possible to build on
top of it. And the tricky piece here is
that it's not enough to just wait for
that technology to get better and then
start building on top. you have to build
beforehand to like make a bet and then
it's the LLM to catch up because when
that model releases you already need to
have that functionality available. So
that piece is I've never been in a
company where the fundamental
capabilities are still changing so
rapidly and that's the product part. So
the product can leap to the new
expectations but let's not talk about
the market part as well. Consumer
expectations have never changed this
fast before. what we expected Chad GPT
to be able to do and answer and how we
wanted it to talk to us eight months ago
versus now is night and day and like the
deep thinking mode and uh the like the
how how how deeply it can go into
answering questions and what is capable
of being building on top of it. So
consumer perception has never changed
this fast too is this unprecedented time
of consumers all of a sudden like in a
month saying oh it's not doing this yet
like I'm bouncing before again consumer
perceptions would be years to take it's
actually technology would sometimes be
able to already address it but consumer
perception has not not been changed yet
so it would take a long time so we're
like in this really weird part where
both product and market is shifting so
rapidly that every 3 months I feel like
we have to recapture our product market
fit and not just recapture on the same
technology and with same customers. It's
both of those pieces of the equation
change every 3 months. And it's
terrifying in a way. It's also very
confusing in a way because we're $200
million company and we're not solely
focused on marketing and sales because
we still have to recapture our product
market fit. And you know that the team
that finds your product market fit is
very different than the team that
usually scales your company. Yet we have
to find the team that is capable of
doing both on ongoing basis. Now I think
every AI company is in on this product
market fit treadmill. Uh hopefully that
treadmill speed slows down. If not I
think we're going to come up with like
crazy things of what this LLM and AI
will be able to do if it's going to
continue at this cusp. But um it's a
weird place to be in because every 3
months we have to throttle on our
scaling efforts and just reinvent and
then scale again. But it's like short
blitz of growth, not these long
year-long commitments. What makes this
very real is just this week apparently
OpenAI had this whole code red moment
where even though OpenAI by far the
leading AI assistant over almost a
billion I think monthly active users
like basically synonymous with AI around
the world with Gemini 3 launching their
market share just started to dip really
quickly. I think they lost like six
something% in like a week. And so even
OpenAI like chat GPT the original the
one that everyone uses constantly is is
is in danger.
>> It's like nobody's nobody's future is
bulletproof yet. And 10 years ago, if
you asked me if a $200 million company
was at risk in losing product market fit
in the next three months if it's
experiencing 10% month- over-month
growth, I would have said, "You're
crazy." And now that's the reality that
we live in. And I I I don't know. I it's
fascinating to world. And what a time to
be alive.
>> What a time to be alive. And uh very
stressful, but the prize at the end is
massive. That's the, you know, that's
why this is worth doing. Uh not just,
you know, monetarily, but just the
impact it's going to have on the world,
the way we people build and ship.
>> Exactly. Exactly. The ceiling of what is
possible has been raised so massively
that we haven't even became too closest
to even see it. I believe so I think
that that's the exciting part of it.
>> The way I've seen you write about this
product market fit challenge is the
traditional approaches you have these
like core users that are using it happy
with it and then you expand to the
adjacent users and expand to the next
and you're basically just trying to
recapture that same core constantly and
don't even have time to go adjacent.
Yeah, I Bengali wrote a really wonderful
article. It was many years ago at this
point on adjacent user theory and that
your product market fit expansion when
you're in no growth stages. The biggest
opportunity for you to go after is this
what he called adjacent user which are
just outside of your core user. They
have uh somewhat similar needs but maybe
they're in different geo maybe they have
slightly different use case, slightly
different needs. and your biggest way to
continue growing your product market fit
without having to go to next horizon is
to capture those um that next
group of users. The interesting piece
here of how I relate to it, we still
have the core users and by the way those
core users are mostly pioneers right now
that are excited by the capabilities.
Then there's latent majority that is
filled with adjacent users. And the
issue right now which I'm actually quite
worried about us like as a category is
that we're constantly focusing on
recapturing the pioneers. We don't have
time to go after adjacent users and I'm
worried of whether there's going to be a
gap in the space where we actually going
to alienate the latent majority because
we're so hyperfocused on just staying
top of mind and t top of capabilities on
the pioneers. But I don't know the right
answer here because without the pioneers
they'll like you need pioneers for a
latent majority to follow. But if you
take pioneers and you take them too far
into capabilities, will latent majority
never be able to catch up? Uh maybe this
is a fruitless concern, but it's just
like something that I think about
because at this stage we should be
working on adjacent users and and I
would argue maybe OpenAI definitely
started have uh to do that with so many
people they have on their platform, but
not most of the other AI companies.
>> I completely see what you're thinking
there. Like a brand could just become
known as that's just for like startups
and prototyping and it's not for serious
work.
>> Yeah. Or it's like it's for just like
for it's for techies. It's like for tech
people. It's like it never actually
enters the people uh outside of our
little bubble that we live in.
>> We kind of touched on this a little bit
of just like working in AI, working on
AI companies. Uh challenging, stressful,
a lot of work. What's your advice for
folks that are thinking about should I
join a lovable? Should I join a cursor?
Should I just go work at Google Micros?
You know, not not to throw them under
the bus or anything, but just although
Google very very successful in AI now,
maybe less AI focused company.
>> I really believe that there's different
you need to understand what's the
environment that is right for you. Just
please understand that AI companies are
very hectic at the moment. They're very
unstable by definition of that product
market fit treadmill about that
distribution of how they're actually
distributed to the market really
changing about how product is even being
developed in the first place. So if you
are very comfortable in being in that
messy middle and uh really comfortable
of converting chaos into clarity for you
and those around you then yeah AI
company is a wonderful place for you to
really absorb new skill sets right now
because I even before joining lovable
when I kept seeing AI I'm like my gosh
like I'm so tired of seeing AI
everywhere. Is it really changing the
world? Like is it really changing the
way people work? And when I was um I was
at Dropbox before and yeah, we would use
AI here and there and I would use
CHIGPT. I've never used AI there the way
I use AI at lovable and the things that
I'm capable of accomplishing at Lovable
and I don't know if I've ever would have
made that leap so fast unless I joined
Lovable. If I would have just read or
listened about it, it's just different
compared to be surrounded by people
where it's expectation. It's not like a
nice to have or something that
somebody's asking you to do. This is
just how you get things done and you
have to think about everything of like
what can AI do here versus where do I
add value versus like in a traditional
sense of work is like I start with my
own value and then I augmented with AI
and here like the mindset is completely
uh shifted. Now I don't think AI is
replacing everybody's job. So like
please don't like don't look at it as a
as as that cliche saying. I actually
often call AI as like average
intelligence that helps me get the
platform up and then I add my human
thinking and my human creativity on top
of it to get it to the next level. But
at least I can get this base level done
with AI really freaking quickly. So from
that perspective, I think if you want to
leaprog on what it means to be AI native
employee and how to use all of these AI
tools, you should go to AI company. But
if you know that your superpower is in
more structure, in more definition, in a
really high specialty of things, because
in AI companies, they're all fairly
small. So, you'll have to generalize
quite a bit and have a lot of ownership
of areas that you usually maybe not have
ownership over, then you shouldn't join
it because AI companies will evolve to
be more stable too. So, it's just a
matter of time on where you can join. So
I would just urge people to look at
their superpowers and the type of
environments that really speak to them
so they can feel happy because this can
lead to burnout for wrong type of
personalities very quickly.
>> Yeah. My sense is if you want work life
balance, don't join one of these
companies because that's just not the
way they work.
>> I don't know if I'd go that far. I mean
I have family. I have two kids. I feel
like I have a very good work life
balance. Uh, but I put in boundaries for
myself. Like I know when I need time
off, I need because I know when my brain
starts to overheat, so to speak. Uh, but
I I also know that work is my hobby and
it's my passion and I will this is the
best work of my life that I'm doing
right now. There's no other place that
I'd rather be uh than to be here. So, I
think that you just need to be more
careful about setting your own
boundaries that you know you need. But
um I mean let's face it I don't think
anybody has work life balance regardless
of a company that they work at even at
Google or like Microsoft or any of the
others. I think everybody is freaking
out and running as fast as they can.
It's just they're running it in
different structures. I'm really glad
you said that and corrected me there
that it is possible to work at a company
one of if not the fastest growing
company in history and actually uh have
work life balance to get sleep to spend
time with your kids and family.
>> You just have to protect it uh
ruthlessly but you also need to be
realistic with how much is expected out
of you and you need to feel confident
that you'll be able to deliver it. And
by the way, you won't be able to deliver
it unless you use AI in many aspects of
your work life. So that's like the piece
that helps you actually get to hit those
expectations of outcomes that you need
to do and the velocity. But um I'm I'm
very protective of my personal time with
kids. Like why did I have children if
I'm not going to spend time with them?
So like those are part of the
non-negotiables um that I bring along
with me in every single work. for people
that maybe have trouble setting
boundaries or just not good at this
anything what do you what works for you
is it just is it as easy as just telling
people here's where I need to leave what
do you what's what advice do you have
for people to set boundaries like that
>> so first of all I would not think about
it as a work life balance there's no
such thing as balance or balance feels
like oh I have enough time for
everything I don't have enough time for
anything but I prioritize my family in
some moments I prioritize work in other
moments and I don't try to balance the
two I go where I'm needed and where I go
and I feel like I'm not going to regret
the choices that I'm making today. So,
I'm constantly trying to put myself in
the future and say, well, I resent
myself if I make this choice right now.
And if the answer is yes, I don't make
that choice. And sometimes I have to say
no to Anton and say like I can't make it
or I won't be there. I need to be here
with my family or like today I need to
cancel my day. My kid is sick and he
needs me and I need to be I need to take
him to the doctor. So I think that just
making in the moment more like in every
day even sometimes in the hour decisions
to me works better than trying to
balance something that is completely
unachievable and it feels overwhelming
to even think about. But I prioritize
this in my sleep, uh my health, my
workout schedule, my kids, my family, my
husband, um and just my downtime because
I know that I'm most creative once I
have separation from work because then I
come in with like all still firing and I
have so many more ideas about it. So to
me, it's actually part of doing my best
work is to take time off.
>> That is really great advice. I want to
touch on what it's like to work at
Lovable because it feels like Lovable is
at the cutting edge of what working at
in product is going to be. So, you
mentioned a little bit about how you're
always talking to AI asking questions.
Is there any any other kind of anecdotes
of just how people operate at Lovable
that is really unique or weird or funny
or interesting that might be helpful for
people to try in their company?
>> Yeah, I mean we use Lovable at Lovable a
lot. Like all of our internal tools are
built on Lovables. Uh we actually have
our first hackathon on lovable happening
next week. Uh where we're going to
entire company is just going to take
full day to pipe code um and see what we
actually have happen. We prototype
everything on lovable. So our specs yeah
we do still have a written spec but it
always accompanied by a lovable
prototype uh that everybody can interact
with and uh to click around with and
provide feedback and everybody punches
in and also like does some edits if they
have any better ideas. So I uh create
mocks on lovable. So for example, we
need to make some pricing changes um a
pricing page changes. I take a
screenshot of our pricing page. I go to
lovable. I say recreate this pricing
page, make these changes and then I send
that to my engineering team saying hey
this is what I want to happen and then
like they take it from there. So we just
you and Chad GPT I use a lot for
brainstorming especially the deep
thinking mode. I love it. It takes a
long time but it's so worth it. Uh
sometimes it has crazy ideas, sometimes
it does. Like sometimes I was like,
"Yeah, this is like nothing new to me."
So it's not interesting, but like it
gets me thinking and it gets me look at
the different angles and um lots of um I
use Granola a lot for example because to
me it's super helpful to get AI
summaries of the meetings and it's very
powerful for me. I use Whisper Flow a
lot because I feel like I have no time
to type anymore. So I just like talk to
my phone and talk to my laptop all the
time uh in order to do it. But we're
even thinking about all of the customer
support automations uh that are done
through AI. How do we um every single
aspect of what we do is question is
asked what can AI do here first and then
how we can add ourselves into the
equation. But lovable for us uh having
unlimited credits at lovable is a pretty
awesome perk I have to say. Like I
sometimes have to pinch myself. I'm like
I get paid to VIP code. This is like so
fun.
>> I feel like that engineer or that VIP
code engineer, he's he's like actually
>> my dream job. I want his job. I feel
like I Yeah. I I got into the wrong line
of profession here.
>> Oh man. Okay. Uh is there anything else
about Lovable? Because the what I think
about actually I interviewed the
perplexity founders back in the day
years ago and they shared like before we
talked to anyone for advice we first
asked Chacha PT and I was just like that
is the most insane thing I've ever
heard. How can you possibly work that
way and now that's how everyone works
and so I'm curious just I don't know
like how I don't know how Anton works.
Is there anyone else that just like way
in the future of here's how things might
be? So for me especially for product and
growth I and even marketing at some
point it's in some capacity when I have
an idea in my head it like it sounds so
freaking cool and sometimes I can even
like I put it in paper and it's like a
this is like like we need to do it and
then like I go and try to vibe code it
and I'm like oh like this like I don't
see the magic anymore like or I can't
like I can't envision it anymore or
sometimes I'm like yeah yeah and like
there's more there's more. So to me it's
actually has helped really complete the
ideation process for me quite a bit
because then I actually try to go and
build it and it breaks down some of the
elements of what's important, what's
not. So it's taking me on product
development life cycle so much further
down and then it creates a much better
communication vehicle with my engineers
too because like I then can tell them
exactly what's important, what not. So
to me it's been great because sometimes
we envision things that are so much
better than the reality and before until
it hands it off to design like we would
never be a like designers would do it
for us and try to make it awesome versus
I often stop my ideas in tracks super
early on without pushing it forward
versus other times I might have pushed
it too for too far too long even through
design queue or even like pitching to
leadership and uh I find that very
powerful because It calibrates me really
quickly.
>> Awesome. Okay, last question. I want to
talk about something that you've written
about that is a really uh I think it's a
really important topic, something that
we should surface is you wrote this post
called I'm worried about women in tech.
Talk about what you're seeing here. What
you're noticing, what you think might be
going in the wrong direction.
>> Yeah. There's actually conflicting data
points about how um women, you're
talking about women, right? Women. Yeah.
uh there's conflicting data points about
uh how women are keeping up with AI
technology and wave because there's a
bunch of reports that has been done that
show massive gap between women adopting
AI versus men adopting AI which points
the story that um men are just like
widening the gap uh of like
accessibility for technology and whoever
is adopting AI right now is getting paid
the most gets the most opportunities I
mean we're seeing like in say in aqua
hires right now where people are getting
paid more for their talent than for the
companies that they've created and
that's like a really interesting trend
that is occurring and a lot of it is
fueled on um on this wave of AI and
women are not really present there like
if you can think about like $1 million
aqua hire that has been in the news that
is a woman like I can't think of one if
you look at AI companies and their CEOs
uh most of it is men if you if you look
at the company's composition of um in AI
companies it's mostly men. To me, this
really came to the head of when I came
to Lovable and I'm like, it's pink, it's
purple brand, it's a heart, it's
lovable. I'm like, I'm sure this is
where it's 50/50 men versus women. And
uh although we don't collect this
information, but just like through third
party um uh autofill, we saw it's like
20% at most. And I'm like, what is
happening? Not again. Why is this again
not being adopted by women? And uh
obviously I don't know all of the
answers. Um I think that this is early
on that we can shortcut it. And by the
way, I also don't want to put this as a
indication that men are to blame because
I think men are doing wonderful job
really spearheading the horizons and
showing us what's possible and like
leading the charge. I'm just afraid that
so many women are stuck in that latent
majority that is just not catching up.
And my worry is that it's going to
affect the hirable talent. is going to
step us back again in the composition of
the workplace of the diversity and maybe
it matters maybe it doesn't like
whichever side that you s sit on but I
think that there is it's if needs to be
built for everybody in the world and for
that it needs to be built by a
representative sample of uh people that
are behind the product as well. So I I I
just find it fascinating that even when
the barrier to building has been lowered
uh versus like you don't need computer
science degree which I appreciate
there's not that many women that are
getting we're still seeing the gaping um
gap on the adoption between genders
which is just is I I I I don't know
there's like something very frustrating
about that.
>> Yeah. Uh the thing that struck with me
with from your post is there has been a
lot of progress being made in the last
decade and now AI is just kind of
turning it all back, turning it all
around. Hopefully not. I think that
we're early on enough that we can bridge
the gap. I think sometimes uh women just
need space and ability to discover it.
Uh and uh that's what we're doing at
lovable. We have this initiative uh she
builds where we have collect we have
create a hackathon for women only and we
give them unlimited access to lovable
for 48 hours and um they come together
as a community and they build together
and there's like beautiful things that
start to come out of it which I've never
anticipated before but so many women in
that hackathon for us build help for
their with their elderly parents or with
their kids or with the household or for
their church group or for the the kids
basketball team. solutions should have
hyper local, hyper relevant, very needed
for what they need in their life and
something that was never been able to
build before because of how expensive
software was because it would never
going to become potentially a hundred
million dollar companies but it also
doesn't need to be anymore. So I just
want to bring women to build more and
vibe code more so we can have more
diversity in software that is even
created because I think that we all have
a unique take on what problems that we
can solve and I want everybody's voices
to be heard.
>> I'll give the URL for shebuilds. I
pulled it up while you're talking.
Shebuilds.lovable.app
>> bitecoded on lovable minimum viable
product.
>> Minimal lovable product.
>> There it is. So when is this happening?
Is this December 15th, 18th? So it's
>> Yeah, we have it. We're running it
constantly. So our next cohort uh starts
um December 15th, but we're going to
have more. We're planning a massive one
on International Women's Day.
>> So that's the one that if you can come
join us.
>> Awesome. I don't know if you Okay, so
some glimmer of hope. I don't know if
you saw this tweet where I tagged you
the other day or maybe it was this
today. I was looking at my most recent
podcast video performance and the top
four are all women and they're all AI
oriented and they're above Stuart
Butterfields, founder of Slack, above
Gamma's CEO Grant. So maybe a glimmer of
hope.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think there's lots
of glimmers of hope. I think we can just
all lean in and make sure that nobody's
left behind in this wave. And uh that's
not to stop people that are marching
ahead. This is just to open up
opportunities for everybody around us.
>> Awesome. And we'll link to that post if
people want to get a deeper perspective
what you're saying. Elena, is there
anything else that you wanted to share?
Is there anything else you want to
remind people of before we get to our
one question lightning round?
>> I guess the only other thing that I will
share uh is for AI companies when it
comes to hiring. It's really interesting
also the kind of the shift in the type
of personas that end up being hired that
I see for me at least it's quite
different compared to anywhere uh that
I've worked before and that is uh
there's this narrative going in the
market always that like new hire sorry
new grads have no jobs in the market
left because all of the entry-level jobs
are automated. I actually think that's
quite false because new grads especially
AI native new grads. So it's very
important for kids that are entering
into the work I shouldn't say kids young
adults that are entering into uh the the
workforce that they really know AI which
is there's another like really big issue
that our schools are not teaching AI uh
students. So, this is like something
else that we need to fix as a as a
category because otherwise we're
literally setting up our uh young for
for a complete failure. But I think it's
incredible to see some of those new
graduates come in and what they're
capable of doing. I have um we have
multiple new graduates at lovable that
are working and I learned so much from
them and you need to obviously have the
right atmosphere where people with
experience like old guard like me that
can look at the new guard and take
really hear them and see them and really
change the way that I operate based on
how they do things. So, uh, make sure
that you bring some of that fresh talent
that doesn't understand any of the
baggage that we came from and that can
really look at the future in technology
and what can unlock from a completely
new lens. So, highly recommend putting
those into your team as like little
fireballs that are going to be sometimes
hard to contain, but can start the best
the best initiatives for you forward.
And then um it's also interesting that
there's a really high demand for uh
ex-founders now for like those people
that are truly have a lot of agency and
um high autonomy. So instead of just
having people that have been working in
the corporate world, the failed startup
founders are now hot demand for a lot of
these AI companies. So like these
personas that we traditionally would not
prioritize in companies uh to to hire
are now becoming the hottest commodity
and the highest going talent which is I
think is fascinating and it's like the
wonderful thing that is changing the how
uh the culture inside operates
>> that is really interesting and really
empowering just this idea that uh if you
need gradu's hope you're not you're not
going to be out of job.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely.
>> You might have an advantage. Yeah.
>> You you do have a you have to lead with
that. That's the thing like you have to
lead with the things that you can you
are capable of achieving knowing that
what you have with AI because that is a
lot of people especially in traditional
tech or in more traditional companies
they're looking for somebody to show
them because it's really hard to figure
it out on your own uh versus coming in
and seeing and then copying.
>> Well Elena with that we reached our very
exciting lightning round because it's
your fourth time I'm not going to ask
you all the questions I always ask you
so I'm just going to ask you one
question. So Lovable is based in
Stockholm Sweden. I'm curious just like
what do you what's something you love
about Stockholm that you weren't
expecting? Is there like a food, a
restaurant, I don't know, something?
>> Well, you always have to say Swedish
meatballs. I mean, I've never liked
meatballs before. Uh so like and now
it's it's so good here. It's so good. So
like every time one of my meals here
throughout the day involves it. But I
actually really love the sounds. They're
like they're I don't know. They're so
they just taste different. It's not like
the IKEA. It's not like the IKEA Swedish
meatballs.
>> Well, I have been to IKEA here because
that is a Swedish company, too. It like
reminded me of uh in person Amazon. It
was like absolutely incredible. IKEA
here is like next level. But, uh food
food I Swedish meatballs for sure.
Honestly, how clean the city is like
it's it's kind of incredible. The
architecture like everything is so built
out. It's like picture perfect. Like
it's on the card. I don't know. It's
It's
different compared to like most of the
large cities that I've been at that are
a little bit more worn down.
>> So fun. Makes me want to visit get some
meatballs.
>> Yeah. You're in the visit during the
summer. Otherwise, the daylight here is
really is really tight during the
winter.
>> Okay, good tip. Okay. Uh two final
questions. Where can folks find you
online if they want to reach out, maybe
learn more? And how can listeners be
useful to you?
>> Yes, please find me online uh on
LinkedIn. Uh please feel free to follow
me. Always engage on my post if you want
to engage with me because that's um the
place that I always talk to people. I
have my newsletter as well um that um
baby baby steps compared to what Lenny
has, but it's elenena verna.com. I also
try to that's where I post most of my
findings that that I experience at my
work. So if you want to continue seeing
how my thinking evolves or what the
patterns that I noticed, that's where to
find me. and how to be useful to me. Um,
really pressure test my thinking because
so many things are changing right now.
I'm honestly not even sure myself of
what is a pattern versus what is just a
data point. So, I'd love to just engage
in as many conversations as possible uh
and hear your opinions because that will
help us as an industry just understand
what is actually happening and makes
more sense out of this whole thing.
>> I'm just going to double click on your
newsletter. Definitely subscribe to it.
It's incredibly good. Everything we've
talked about here, uh, Elena has written
about in her newsletter in in large part
and goes even deeper. It's just elena
vernett.com. If you're like reading this
on your podcast app or YouTube, you can
just look at her name and just type
it.com and you'll find it and subscribe
and you'll be really happy. Elena, thank
you so much for being here. This was
amazing. Everything I wanted it to be.
Thank you for sharing. I know you have a
lot a lot of work to do, so I appreciate
you making time for this and for joining
us.
>> Thank you for having me. Really
appreciate you.
>> Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.